Zookeeper Cluster: is cordinator who store the meta data and keeps the track of kafka cluster. prod env must have three or more machines
node1 is leader and others would be peers. defualt port 2181

register every node of zookeeper cluster with each mochine in kafka cluster. each node in kafka cluster is also called broker

Next step in kafka in any organization is at the application level.
Application development:
1. create topic: 
create topic for twitter and all the message would store in this topic. avery topic replicates to each node.

another terminology as architecture provide partitioning data. let say, topic has three partion p1,p2,p3 and sanme partition will be available on all machine
now, kafka cluster ready to be consumes.
default port 9092 for kafka cluster

Similarly, the stream of data gets divided across multiple topics as well. Every message has a non-changeable unique id called an offset.
In the image shown above, there are three partitions in a topic. They are Partition 0, Partition 1 and Partition 2. Each of these partitions contains some message, and each of those messages has a unique, immutable numeric id called offset. So, Partition 0 contains 12 messages, Partition 1 contains 9 messages, and Partition 2 contains 12 messages.

As you have learnt, a producer writes messages to a topic partition. So whenever a message goes into a topic partition, it is automatically assigned an offset value by Kafka.

Similarly, when a consumer reads/consumes a message it essentially is reading the offset value of that message in a topic partition, as shown below.

NOw we have a rady kafka queue and some application push message to queue. this application is call nothing but publisher/producer.
application can written in any languages. kafka provide libraries for different languages.

source syste(twiter) -> publisher/producers(application)(client system),app provide topic/partion no/ details to kafka cluster ->  kafka cluster


Kafka consumer/subscriber : can have multiple application which consume data. consume data for topic/partition no
